---
layout: post
title: "Blogging"
date: 2017-08-19 12:00:00 +0100
categories: meta
---
This blog has now been alive for over a year without me writing a single blog post.

It's about time that changed.

I've been working as a software developer professionally for about 11 months now and I love the community surrounding development, IT and everything in between. So one big reason for writing here is that I feel (responsible, almost) to try and give something back to the community that've played a major part in where I am in life today.

One part of that is the (swedish) podcast [Still in beta](http://stillinbeta.se) where I and a couple of friends talks about being rookie developers. This blog is another attempt at giving back, but there are a few other reasons why I also feel like blogging:

- **Writing more english**

Being a non-native English speaker working in a industry where it is _the_ official language could be tough. I am fortunate enough to be from the land of moose and Smorgasbord, Sweden, where English is taught early and well in school. Even so I feel that I have too few opportunities to write in it, and this blog provides an outlet and training ground.

- **Learning stuff**

I believe that writing in public about the stuff I learn will force me to get to know the subject at hand even better. I mean, who wants to be [wrong on the internet](https://xkcd.com/386/)?

- **(Hopefully) Teaching someone something**

I would lie if I said I didn't care if anyone reads what I write, which is also why hopefully I can write something that can teach atleast someone else something new.

- **Putting myself "out there"**

No matter if its writing a blog, hosting a podcast or putting your code up on GitHub the most scary thing is that it is **public**. Anyone can see it, anyone can find faults in what you did and anyone can tell it directly to you. I don't see this as a purely negative thing, but more like something that develops you as a person and, in my case, developer. We've almost exclusively recieved positive feedback and words of encouragment for the podcast which is why I also dare to do this.

##### So, here goes nothing.
