---
title: The Internet we deserve
date: '2025-04-05T12:05:00.000Z'
unlisted: true
description: 'Something'
state: 'bloomed'
---

I use ChatGPT to find a (hopefully correct) answer when Google is failing me, to practice Italian or brainstorm weekend activities. I have a subscription to GitHub Copilot. I have built and will build applications that use generative AI, both for myself and for my clients. It’s a tool in my developer tool belt.

Despite this there is this growing feeling in the pit of my stomach, or maybe in my heart, that I can’t escape.

<div style="height: 1.5rem;"></div>
The Internet as we know it is dying.
<div style="height: 1.5rem;"></div>

Years ago I stumbled upon this conspiracy theory called “[Dead Internet theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_Internet_theory)” that describe how bots have intentionally taken over most of the Internet, in order to manipulate public opinion and steer the zeitgeist. In this reality a large majority of the information you see online is generated by bots with the sole purpose of affecting you. While this isn’t true, I fear that we are heading in a similar direction.

Every day I flinch more than before as I encounter obviously AI generated content. It doesn’t matter if it’s on Reddit, LinkedIn or a private Discord. Low quality, soulless texts, images and most recently videos without any substance. It’s as if the uncanny valley experience of reading the simulation in [SubSimulatorGPT2](https://old.reddit.com/r/SubSimulatorGPT2/) is leaking into the real world, my world. 

Unfortunately, there is no signs that it is slowing down. Services become cheaper to use and people keep chasing the promise of a return on their “investment”.

<div style="height: 1rem;"></div>

_“Use a generated image and your post will get more engagement!”_

_“Ask ChatGPT to write your LinkedIn post and you can produce 10x as much!”_

_“Automate your video creation with this amazing AI agent!”_

<div style="height: 1rem;"></div>

That the output turns out mediocre at best doesn’t seem to matter. Mediocre content that floods our common digital space. It will become harder and harder to discern what’s authentic and as we adapt to this new reality both our trust and interest will drop.

While the drowning of authentic content is a catastrophe in and of itself, it’s not the only problem. In order to feed the always hungry machines training new models, crawlers are relentlessly scouring the Internet for new data to feed them. In our previous Internet we had working honour systems such as [robots.txt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots.txt) that prevented unwanted bots from accessing our sites. Now a new tale of overly aggressive bots causing [disruptions of our most loved sites](https://www.engadget.com/ai/wikipedia-is-struggling-with-voracious-ai-bot-crawlers-121546854.html), [desperate conversations among sysadmins](https://drewdevault.com/2025/03/17/2025-03-17-Stop-externalizing-your-costs-on-me.html) and [massivily increased side-project costs](https://bsky.app/profile/gergely.pragmaticengineer.com/post/3llt2p7vgv223) is posted every other day. This isn’t The War Against the Machines that the Terminator movies promised us, but it's the one we got and I am afraid that we are losing. 

In the midst of all this the saddest realisation is that these are decisions made very intentionally. Someone decided that ignoring robots.txt was worth it. Someone decided that letting crawlers pummel every site was the correct thing to do. That copyright doesn't matter. That the environment has to be neglected in the name of imaginary progress. There’s no Artificial General Intelligence to put the blame on. These are decisions made by people.

<div style="height: 3rem;"></div>

This isn't the Internet that we want,

<div style="height: 1rem;"></div>

but maybe,

<div style="height: 1rem;"></div>

it is the Internet that we deserve.